International Journal 01 Plasticity 192 (2025) 104409
N0749-6419
INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF
Plasticitu
INON
International Journal of Plasticity
Anomalous anisotropy in an additively manufactured
solid-solution-strengthened superalloy from room to
elevated temperatures
Zhenhua Zhang a,1, Zixu Guo b,1,*", Quanquan Han a,", Daijun Hu b, Shiwei Wu c,
Haiyang Fan , Erlei Li b, Ming Li a, Yilun Xu d, Shoufeng Yang , Chuanzhen Huang e,
Wentao Yan
b,
a State Key Laboratory of Advanced Equipment and Technology for Metal Forming, School of Mechanical Engineering, Shandong University, Jinan,
250061, China
cChinese Academy of Sciences, Chongqing Institute of Green and Intelligent Technology, Chongqing 400714, China
Singapore 138632, Republic of Singapore
e School of Mechanical Engineering, Yanshan University, Qinhuangdao, Hebei, 066000, China

## ARTICLE INFO

## ABSTRACT

## Keywords

Metal additive manufacturing (AM) produces unique grain morphologies owing to the high
Additive manufacturing
cooling rates and large temperature gradients, which potentially lead to unexpected mechanical
Superalloys
anisotropy. In this study, we unveil an anomalous anisotropic behaviour in a solid-solution-
Grain morphologies
strengthened superalloy with periodic columnar-to-crescent grains fabricated by laser powder
Anisotropy
bed fusion (LPBF). Specifically, as-built (AB) specimens show higher strength perpendicular to the
Crystal plasticity
build direction (BD) than that parallel to the BD at room temperature (RT), while the opposite
trend occurs at the elevated temperature (ET, 900 C). Besides, the heat treatment eliminates the
anisotropy of strength at both RT and ET. A dislocation-based damage-coupled crystal plasticity
finite element (CPFE) model with strain gradients is utilized to understand the origin of the above
anomalous anisotropy. It is found that the transition of anisotropy from RT to ET is attributed to
the temperature-dependent dislocation annihilation combined with initial dislocations in AB
state. In contrast to the heat-treated specimens without anisotropy, the LPBF-induced residual
deformation primarily contributes to the anisotropy at RT, whereas the initial dislocations
dominate the anomalous anisotropy at ETs for AB specimens. The CPFE model reveals the
threshold temperature to be 600 C for the occurrence of anomalous anisotropy, which is
experimentally validated. This study presents a comprehensive understanding into temperature-
dependent anisotropy of AM superalloys, and in turn guides the regulation of anisotropy by
tuning microstructures.
*
Corresponding authors.
These authors contribute equally.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijplas.2025.104409

## 1. Introduction

Additive manufacturing (AM) of superalloys is promising to achieve fast, near-net shaping of hot components in aerospace ap-
technologies, in which a focused laser beam is used to selectively melt a powder bed in a layer-by-layer sequence to build the com-
ponents (Blakey-Milner et al., 2021; Wen et al., 2025). Recently, LPBF technique has been applied to fabricate the superalloy fuel
nozzles and many other critical parts (Sun et al., 2021). Compared to conventionally manufactured counterparts, LPBF-fabricated
nozzles have been demonstrated to exhibit reduced weight and enhanced durability, as reported in several studies (NASA, 2023;
Subeshan et al., 2024; Tan et al., 2021). Moreover, LPBF technique shows potentials to impart superior mechanical properties for
superalloy components, and offers tunable strength and ductility through various heat treatment strategies (Lu et al., 2023; Song et al.,
2024). Therefore, such advances demonstrate the potential of LPBF technology in fabricating high-performance superalloy compo-
nents for critical applications.
Under high cooling rates (>2 × 105 K/s) and large temperature gradients (>5 × 105 K/m) (Okugawa et al., 2024; Tang et al., 2021),
some unique LPBF-induced microstructures in superalloys possibly lead to anisotropic mechanical behaviour. A substantial number of
studies conducted at room temperature (RT) have found that, the LPBF Inconel 718 superalloy exhibited higher strength in the
horizontal direction (perpendicular to the build direction (BD)) compared with the vertical direction (parallel to BD) (Cui et al., 2023).
For instance, Chen et al. (Chen et al., 2018) reported that the yield strength (YS) under horizontal tension was 23 MPa higher than that
under vertical tension in a LPBF K418 superalloy. Similarly, Zhang et al. (Zhang et al., 2023a) demonstrated that horizontal tension
exhibited a YS that is 101 MPa higher than that of vertical tension for a LPBF GH4099 superalloy. In those studies, numerous columnar
grains parallel to the BD with strong anisotropy, were formed driven by the temperature gradient in the LPBF process, which was
summarized as the key reason for the higher YS perpendicular to BD. Zhang et al. (Zhang et al., 2021) also demonstrated that the HX
superalloys fabricated under different laser scanning strategies (0°, 90° and 67° hatch angles and a chessboard pattern with a 67° hatch
angle) shared a similar anisotropy behaviour at RT. Therefore, the higher YS perpendicular to BD has been widely recognized as a
common anisotropic behaviour in previous studies at RT, while it remains unknown whether this trend persists at elevated temper-
atures (ETs).
Since superalloys are designed for high-temperature applications exceeding 600 C, it is essential to focus on the mechanical
a
2.5
R4.5
R
Vertical tension (V)
d

## 20. μm

Layer N+1
Horizontal tension
(H)
K→

## 40. μm

90°
BD
Layer N
Z
X
Crescent grain
Laser beam
Columnar dendrite
SD3230 powder
Grain boundary
Columnar grain
Crescent grain
Columnar grain

## 100. μm

Melt pool boundary
Fig. 1. Specimen preparation: (a) Schematic diagram for the sampling of tensile specimens. (b) Morphology of superalloy powder. (c) Dimensions of
the tensile specimen. (d) Schematic diagram of the scanning strategy. (e) Schematic diagram for the formation of LPBF-induced periodic columnar-
to-crescent grains.

stresses (Wang et al., 2023). Their effects on macroscopic anisotropy at ETs have not been comprehensively understood.
The anisotropic behaviour of LPBF superalloys is attributed to several AM-induced factors (Bean et al., 2019; Rezaei et al. 2020).
Previous studies have identified some potential contributors to the anisotropy, including crystallographic texture, orientation of the
columnar grains, residual stresses formed in the LPBF process, and high initial dislocation densities (Kok et al., 2018; Rezaei et al.,
2020). Moreover, there is a complex coupling relationship among different AM-induced factors, which collectively influence the
anisotropy of AM alloys (Dai et al., 2024; Hu et al., 2024a). Without quantifying the contributions of each LPBF-induced factor, the
mechanism for the temperature-dependent anisotropy in LPBF superalloys remains an unresolved issue. One critical gap is the lack of
comprehensive tests for LPBF superalloys to clarify the evolution of anisotropic behaviour from RT to ETs. Another gap is the lack of
dislocation evolution history, which is crucial for fundamentally understanding the anisotropic behaviour of LPBF superalloys from RT
to ETs. In this regard, micro-mechanics simulations serve as a powerful tool to bridge this gap.
In this work, a superalloy with representative microstructures is fabricated using LPBF technology. An anomalous anisotropic
behaviour is revealed through tensile tests conducted on as-built (AB) and heat-treated (HT) specimens from RT to ETs. Then, a
dislocation-based crystal plasticity finite element (CPFE) model is developed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of the anomalous
anisotropy and quantify the contributions of each AM-induced factor. Driven by the strain gradient resulting from periodic columnar-
to-crescent grains, the effect of geometrically necessary dislocation (GND) evolution on tensile behaviour is unveiled. Finally, the
threshold temperature for the transition of anisotropy is predicted using CPFE simulations, which is validated against experiments.
This study contributes to understanding and predicting the anisotropic behaviour of AM solid-solution-strengthened superalloys across
RT to ETs, and also inspires the regulation of anisotropy at varying temperatures by tuning the microstructures.

## 2. Material and methods

## 2.1. LPBF fabrication

The spherical gas-atomised SD3230 Ni-based superalloy powder used in this study is produced by Avimetal AM Technology
(Beijing, China). The powder's elemental composition is 21.49 Cr - 13.13 W - 2.22 Mo - 1.57 Fe - 1.30 Co - 0.46 Al - 0.34 Mn - 0.30 Si -

## 0.029. La - 0.48 C - Bal Ni (weight percent, wt.%). As shown in Fig. 1 b, the powder exhibits notable sphericity, with a nominal powder

size ranging from 15 to 53 µm and D50 of 30.42 µm. A Concept Laser Mlab 200R (GE, Germany) LPBF machine equipped with a 200 W
fibre laser source (wavelength = 1070 nm) is employed to print the superalloy. A zig-zag scanning pattern is applied, along with 90°
rotation in the laser path between layers (Fig. 1 d). All specimens are fabricated under optimised printing parameters (Table 1),
resulting in a high density exceeding 99.5 % (measured by the Archimedes method), without any microcracks or lack of fusion defects
being found in the AB state. Moreover, as demonstrated in Appendix D, the crack initiation at LPBF-induced defects is not dominant.
Fig. 1 e illustrates the mechanism of LPBF-induced periodic columnar-to-crescent grains, with formation mechanisms similar to
those in previous studies (Gokcekaya et al., 2021; Lyu and Zou, 2025; Sun et al., 2019). The rapid solidification and thermal gradients
during the laser scanning process, lead to the continuous growth of large columnar grains at the regions without the overlap of adjacent
melt tracks. Meanwhile, due to the remelting at the overlap region, crescent grains form around the large columnar grain during the
LPBF process. Fig. 1 a shows the sampling arrangement for the tensile specimens which are extracted from printed bulks with a size of

## 70. × 2.5 × 20 mm3³. Specimens for vertical and horizontal tension are fabricated to investigate the anisotropy of tensile behaviour for

the LPBF superalloy from RT to ETs. Moreover, the solid-solution heat treatment is conducted at 1150 °C for 2 h (based on the
ASTM-B572 standard) to eliminate the LPBF-induced residual stresses and initial dislocations (ASTM, 2016), without altering the grain
morphology (demonstrated in subsequent Section 3.2.1). Since the alloy investigated in this study is a solid-solution-strengthened
Ni-based superalloy with a low Al content (0.46 wt.%), the formation of γ' precipitates (Ni3Al) is absent during thermal exposure.
Consequently, aging treatment is not applied, as it would not contribute to additional strengthening (Adapa et al., 2025).

## 2.2. Tensile testing

The specific dimensions of the tensile specimens are shown in Fig. 1 c. Uniaxial tensile tests at RT condition are performed using an
Exceed E44-30 kN (MTS, China) electronic universal testing machine with a strain rate of 0.02 min-1, in accordance with the ASTM E8
standard (ASTM, 2021). A contact extensometer with a gauge length of 25 mm is employed to measure the tensile strain during the RT
Table 1
LPBF-processing parameters for the superalloy.
Printing parameters
Value
Printing parameters
Value
Laser power

## 190. W

Hatch spacing

## 110. μm

Laser scanning speed

## 900. mm/s

Layer thickness

## 40. μm

directions).
It should be noted that, although tensile tests are carried out at three temperatures (RT, 600 °C,and 900 C), the data at 600 C are
presented in the discussion (Section 4.4) to validate the threshold temperature for the anisotropy transition. The YS is determined using

## 1. % strain offset rather than the conventional 0.2 % offset, to highlight the changes in yielding points under varying temperatures and

loading conditions, thereby facilitating a clearer presentation of the anisotropic behaviour.

## 2.3. Microstructure characterisation

The XOY and xOZ planes of the specimens are ground and polished to examine the microstructure features. The specimens are
initially ground using SiC sandpapers of 320, 600, 1500, and 2500 grit, followed by sequential polishing with diamond suspensions of 3
μm and 1 µm. Finally, to enhance the quality of electron backscatter diffraction (EBSD) and X-ray diffraction (XRD) data acquisition,
the specimens are polished using a 0.04 µm SiO2 suspension for 50 min. XRD characterisation is performed using a SmartLab 3 kW
diffractometer (Rigaku, Japan) with Cu Kα radiation. The polished surfaces serve as the XRD test surfaces, with measurements con-
ducted over a 2θ range of 40100° at a scanning speed of 3°/min. EBSD analysis is conducted under a JSM-7800F (JEOL, Japan) field
emission scanning electron microscope, combined with a NordlysMax³ (Oxford Instructions, Oxford, UK) detector at a 20 kV accel-
eration voltage and a probe current of grade 16. The EBSD scanning area is 800 × 800 µm2², with a step size of 1 µm. The EBSD data are
post-processed by ATEX software (Beausir and Fundenberger, 2017), and our in-house code (Guo et al., 2025). Specimens near the
fracture surfaces are cut into disc-shaped transmission electron microscope (TEM) samples using electrical discharge machining. These
disc-shaped specimens are then mechanically thinned to 50 µm. Thinning is further performed using a PIPS II 695 precision ion
polishing system (Gatan, USA), starting at 5 keV, with ion gun angles of ± 8° until perforation occurs. Subsequently, the ion beam
energy is gradually reduced to 4.5 keV at ± 6° for 5 min, 4.0 keV at ± 4° for 5 min, and finally 3 keV at ± 3° for 5 min. The
microstructure is observed using an FEI Talos F200X (Thermo Fisher, USA) field emission TEM with an acceleration voltage of 200 kV.
The algorithm mapping GND density based on EBSD data is mainly based on our previous work (Guo et al., 2025), with a brief
introduction provided below. The local lattice curvature tensor κ is utilized to calculate the Nye tensor α:
α = − δm
∂φ
(1)
i =
∂xj
where φ; is the misorientation angle regarding i axis, x is the position vector, δki is the Kronecker symbol. The slip system-resolved GND
densities can be linked with the Nye tensor:
α = AρGND
(2)
There are 9 constraints provided in Eq. (2), but we have 18 independent variables to be solved in ρGND for FCC metals (Pantleon,
2008). Thus, we assume that the GND densities exist in the configuration with the lowest total energy, and apply the L1 minimization
algorithm to estimate the GND density at each slip system (Zhu et al., 2016):
wnρND = min
(3)
where wn (1 for edge GNDs, (1-µ) for screw GNDs) is the weight associated with the line energy of dislocations, and n is the GND type.
There are two main limitations in the EBSD-based algorithm for resolving GND density. First, only 5 components in the Nye tensor
are accessible when using EBSD data as an input (Pantleon, 2008), while the Nye tensor contains 9 components in total. Secondly, due
to the lack of sufficient constraints for slip system-dependent GNDs, the L1 minimization algorithm is used to approximate the GND
densities, which could also introduce some errors in the resolved GND densities due to the inadequate constraints. To overcome these
limitations, 3D EBSD techniques could be employed in future studies.
Moreover, the EBSD data are utilized to map the residual deformation gradient and plastic strians. First, the Nye tensor α is linked
with Fpo (Acharya and Bassani, 2000):
α = ( × Fp0)
T
(4)
plastic strains through the GreenLagrange formation (Dill, 2006).

## 2.4. Dislocation-based damage-coupled crystal plasticity model

and residual deformation are incorporated in the simulations, which are extracted from EBsD data, with detailed procedures in our
previous work (Hu et al., 2024a). The GNDs resolved at individual slip systems are introduced to capture the strain gradient effect
arising from columnar-to-crescent grains. Additionally, the stored energy density (SED) (Wan et al., 2014; Xu et al., 2024), is integrated
into the CPFE simulations as an indicator to display damage distributions. The details of the crystal plasticity model are presented
below.
The deformation gradient F can be decomposed into elastic part Fe and plastic part Fp:
F = Fe Fp
(5)
in which the residual deformation Fpo formed in the LPBF process is taken as the initial condition of the plastic deformation gradient, to
capture the effects of residual stresses. The GreenLagrange elastic strain tensor is written as (Lu et al., 2020; Pedersen, 2005):
=
(FTFe − I)
(6)
|2
Then, the stress tensor is calculated as follows (Addessio et al., 2017; Liu et al., 2020):
σ = :
(7)
heastenrTe hea at s collecieuhepasaat l
2025; Wong et al., 2016):
Nslip
ε = FpF−1 = ∑ (s n
(8)
s=1
where Nslip is the number of slip systems, s is the unit vector along the slip direction, and n³ is the unit vector normal to the slip plane.
The plastic flow rule proposed by Peirce et al. is employed to calculate the slip rate in each slip system (Peirce et al., 1983; Rice,
1971; Xu et al., 2025):
|TS|
n
(9)
γ = Yref
sign()
S(1 − D)
where is known as the total slip resistance of the slip system (Guo et al., 2024), n is the exponent of the power law, and Yref is the
reference slip rate.
Under the framework of continuum damage mechanics, the damage variable D is incorporated in the flow rule, to predict the crack
nucleation, which represents the proportion of reduction in the effective bearing area. The damage variable results from various micro-
defects, such as atomic vacancies and micro-pores formed during the deformation, particularly in ET conditions (Chaboche, 1988; Guo
et al., 2023). At the moment of D=1, the fraction of micro-defects is high enough to result in macroscopic crack nucleation (Lemaitre,
1985). Since the damage variable leads to reductions in effective bearing area and stiffness, the t is replaced by the effective resolved
shear stress τ /(1 D) in Eq. (9). The damage D will be derived from SED subsequently.
The t in Eq. (9) is written as (Bayley et al., 2006; Zhang et al., 2023b):
Nslip
∑χα(|ραsD| + |ρGNDe| + |ρGND|)
(10)
= + 0Gb,
α=1
where ρNDe and ρGNDs are the edge and screw components of GND density, ρsD is the immobile SSD density, φ0 is the pre-factor of the
Taylor hardening law and χ is the latent hardening matrix, and is the initial slip resistance capturing the lattice friction and solid-
solution strengthening in the LPBF superalloy. The evolution of statistically stored dislocation (SSD) density ρ§sD is given as (Hu et al.,
2024a):
|γs
:s
K
− 2yc|ρssD|
(11)
ρSD =
GNDe
b
where ρNDe and ρNDs are the edge and screw GND densities, γ is the resolved shear strain rate, K is a coefficient representing the
accumulation rate of SsD. The yc is the critical annihilation distance governing the dislocation annihilation rate. Additionally, the
LPBF-induced initial sSD density is uniformly distributed within the simulation domain. Moreover, the GNDs are incorporated to
consider the extra strengthening effect induced by strain gradients (Arsenlis and Parks, 1999):

γ . s
b
ρGNDs =
/
(12)
γs . ts
where t = s × n³ is the direction of screw dislocation motion. When implementing Eq. (12), the slip system-dependent accumulated
slip γ is calculated by integrating the slip increments provided by Eq. (9). Subsequently, the edge and screw GND densities are resolved
onto each slip system based on the gradients of accumulated slip, according to the original definition of GNDs in Eq. (12). The scalar
GND and SSD densities defined in Eq. (15) are used to calculate SED.
The SED G is employed as the damage indicator, which represents the internal energy stored around the dislocation structures (Wan
et al., 2014; Xu et al., 2024):
ξσ : dεp
G =
√N + ρsSD
(13)
where ξ is a constant that is given as 0.05. The micro-cracks are likely to nucleate at the locations with higher SED, then the scalar
damage indicator ranging from 0 to 1 is defined as:
G
D =
Gcr
(14)
where Gcr is the critical SED for crack nucleation.
Moreover, the CPFE simulations are performed under the open-source MOOSE framework (Permann et al., 2020). This platform
facilitates solving the GND densities induced by strain gradients, by using the embedded solver for spatial gradients. The stress-based
Newton-Raphson iterative solving approach is employed, offering greater computational efficiency. The parameters are calibrated in
Appendix A, with details of parameter determination provided in Table A.1. It should be noted that all parameters are calibrated
exclusively using specimens subjected to horizontal tension, while those subjected to vertical tension are used solely for validation of
a
b
Yield stress (1% plastic strain) / MPa
Yield stress - H
Yield stress - V
Elongation - H
Elongation - V
Stress / MPa
T
Elongation / %
1% offset
AB-H
AB-V
AB-H
HT-H
AB-V
HT-H
HT-V
Strain / %
AB
HT
C
p
Yield stress (1 % plastic strain) / MPa
Yield stress - H
Yield stress - V
Elongation - H
Elongation - V
T
Stress / MPa
%
Elongation /
1% offset
AB-H
AB-V
AB-H
HT-H
AB-V
HT-H
HT-V
Strain / %
AB
HT

the calibration results. As shown in Fig. A.1, the calibrated CPFE model successfully reproduces both normal anisotropy (horizontal
strength > vertical strength) at RT and anomalous anisotropy (horizontal strength < vertical strength) at 900 C for AB specimens,
respectively. The absence of anisotropy at HT states also can be captured after parameter calibration. Additionally, detailed validations
on GND and strain distributions are provided in Fig. 7 and Appendix C, respectively. Those comprehensive validations collectively
support the reliability of the calibrated parameters.

## 3. Results

## 3.1. Anomalous anisotropic tensile behaviours from RT to ET

Fig. 2 illustrates the tensile properties of AB and HT specimens under RT and ET conditions. The average values of yield strength
and total elongation are reported along with their corresponding standard deviations, based on the two specimens tested under each
condition. At the RT (Fig. 2 a), the AB specimens show higher strength than the HT specimens, with pronounced anisotropy between
the horizontal and vertical tensions. At the RT, the YS and EL (defined as the fracture EL) of AB-H are found to be 1121.5 ± 9 MPa and

## 8.2. ± 0.72 % in average, compared with 1026.5 ± 0.5 MPa and 4.2 ± 0.4 % under AB-V. Heat treatment reduces strength but increases

the EL, which is consistent with previous studies on AM superalloys (Taller and Austin, 2022; Zhou et al., 2022). The HT-H shows YS of

## 775.0. ± 1.0 MPa and EL of 12.6 ± 0.32 %, while HT-V exhibits YS of 773.0 ± 1.0 MPa and EL of 12.8 ± 0.9 %. For AB specimens, the

differences in YS and EL between horizontal and vertical tensions are about 95.0 MPa and 4.0%. In contrast, for the HT specimens, the
a1
a2
a3
(200)
Austenite
Intensity (a.u.)
Dislocations
(LLL)
t
(311)
(220)
(111)
AB-XOZ
BD
AB-XOY
(001) (101)
AB
Z

## 200. μm

## 2. Theta (°)

b1
(200)
b2
Austenite
b3
Intensity (a.u.)
(LLL)
t
(111)
Dislocations
(220)
(311)
HT-XOZ
BD
HT-XOY
(001)
(101)
z
HT

## 200. μm

x

## 2. Theta (°)

C
AB
p
HT
e
0.7-
0.7
AB-XOY
AB-XOZ
HT-XOY
0.6
HT-XOZ
Relative frequency
frequency
0.5
0.4-
0.4
Relative
0.3-
BD
0.2-
0.2
-10
Z
0.0-
0.0
Aspect ratio

## 200. µm

X
Aspect ratio
Fig. 3. Microstructures of (a) AB and (b) HT specimens: (a1, b1) XRD patterns, demonstrating the predominant FCC lattice structure in AB and HT
specimens. (a2, b2) Pseudo-3D view for the EBSD-based inverse pole figures (IPF-BD) for the three cross-sections, indicating a strong crystallo-

anisotropy is diminished after the heat treatment.
After heat treatment, the anisotropy of YS diminishes, mirroring the trend at RT. In contrast to the tensile behaviour at RT, the tests at
ET indicate that the EL under vertical tension is roughly twice that under horizontal tension for both AB and HT specimens. It should be
noted that the EL values exhibit greater dispersion in the AB specimens due to the inherent microstructural heterogeneity. However,
the YS focused in this paper is highly reproducible, providing a reliable foundation for our analysis of anisotropic behaviour.
Therefore, based on the tensile behaviour shown above, we can summarize the anomalous anisotropic behaviour for the LPBF
superalloy as follows:

## 1. For the AB state, compared with vertical tension, horizontal tension shows higher YS at RT, while exhibiting lower YS at ET.

Aspect ratio
Grain size / µm
a
b
6.1
C
0.3
Large-scale EBSD
Simplified RVE
Relative Frequency
0.2

## 330. μm

0.1
y
0.0
x
Grain size / µm

## 100. μm

## 330. μm

p
e
(111)
BC1
(111)
IPFX
IPFY
grain (hard)
Crescent
IPFZ
φ/°
Ba
BC2
Columnar
grain (soft)
(001)
(101) (001)
(101)
(001)
(101)
Grain size / µm
BC3

## 60. μm

f
Horizontal tension
Vertical tension
strength / MPa
Local yield

## 60. μm

Fig. 4. RVE in CPFE simulations: (a) EBSD-based grain aspect ratio distribution within a large region of 800 µm × 800 µm, indicating a periodic
distribution of columnar-to-crescent grains. The RVE is thus selected as one of the periodic structures. (b) EBSD-based grain size distribution within
than columnar grains in both tensile modes.

## 2. The AB state shows pronounced anisotropy, while no significant anisotropy of YS can be found in the HT state under both RT and

ET.

## 3. Compared with vertical tension, the horizontal tension tends to have a lower EL at higher temperatures for both AB and HT

specimens.

## 3.2. Microstructures and simulation results

## 3.2.1. Microstructures

XRD analysis shows that both the AB (Fig. 3 a1) and HT (Fig. 3 b1) specimens exhibit typical face-centred cubic (FCC) austenite
microstructures. As illustrated in Fig. 3 a1, the (200) diffraction peak appears as the main peak in the AB-xOY and AB-XOZ diffraction
patterns. During solidification, the FCC grains tend to grow preferentially along the thermal gradient in the <001> direction, resulting
in a pronounced (200) diffraction peak (Kurz et al., 2023). The (200) peak intensity on the XOZ plane is higher than that on the XOY
plane (Fig. 3 a1), indicating a stronger temperature gradient-induced crystallographic texture along the BD compared to the OX or OZ
direction. It is worth noting that XRD characterizes the crystallographic orientation normal to the observation planes. This observation
is also consistent with a previous study using similar printing parameters (Yin et al., 2022). As shown in Fig. 3 b1, the XRD patterns of
the HT specimens remain roughly unchanged compared with those of AB specimens. The XRD patterns indicate that the heat treatment
has minimal effect on the orientation of the texture.
As shown in the EBSD orientation map (Fig. 3 a2), the LPBF-induced large columnar grains exhibit [001] preferred orientation
along BD, surrounded by crescent grains with random orientations. Fig. 3 b2 indicates that the features of grain orientations remain
unchanged after the heat treatment, which similarly exhibits the [001] preferred orientation along BD. This is consistent with the XRD
results. TEM characterisation further confirms that the primary difference in microstructures before and after heat treatment lies in the
dislocation density. As shown in Fig. 3 a3 and b3, the AB specimen exhibits a dense dislocation network around the sub-grain
boundaries, while the dislocation density is greatly reduced after heat treatment. The additional TEM observation provided in
Appendix E further corroborates this trend. These results are consistent with the microstructure evolution of LPBF HX superalloy
before and after heat treatment in literature (Sun et al., 2021). Previous studies demonstrated that the high initial dislocation density is
caused by the large temperature gradient and thermal stresses in the rapid solidification process of LPBF (Hu et al., 2023; Wang et al.,
2020).
The aspect ratio distribution (Fig. 3 c) of grains indicates that the grain morphology within the YOZ plane for the AB and HT
specimens presents a similar periodic pattern of columnar-to-crescent grains. The aspect ratios of the columnar grains mostly exceed 5,
with those of crescent grains close to 1. Moreover, all the grains observed from the XOz plane show aspect ratios close to 1. The
histograms of grain aspect ratio shown in Fig. 3 d-e are utilized to quantify the effect of heat treatment on grain morphology. As shown
in Fig. 3 d, AB and HT specimens similarly contain 89 % and 83 % of large columnar grains within XOY planes, featuring aspect ratios
greater than 2. Besides, Fig. 3 e further demonstrates that when viewed from the XOZ plane, the aspect ratios for all grains are close to
1, without the feature of large columnar grains. Those experimental observations are consistent with the expectation in Fig. 1 e. Within
the XOZ plane, AB and HT specimens show comparable proportions of crescent grains with aspect ratios less than 2. Thus, the
Statistically, within the XOZ plane, the average grain size is 8.2 µm for the AB state and 8.8 µm after heat treatment. Besides, within the
XOY plane, the average grain sizes are 14.5 µm (AB) and 13.5 µm (HT). Hence, the effect of heat treatment on average grain size is less
than 10 %, possibly because the heat treatment temperature is insufficient to promote grain growth.

## 3.2.2. Representative volume element

To reflect the distinctive columnar-to-crescent grain distribution in LPBF superalloys, a representative volume element (RVE) is
constructed within a domain of 330 µm × 330 µm. As shown in Fig. 4 a-b, the RVE is selected as a single periodic structure for
columnar-to-crescent grains, including a single columnar grain and surrounding crescent grains. As demonstrated in Fig. 4 c, the grain
size distributions of simplified RVE and original EBSD are similar in statistics, suggesting that the selected RVE is representative.
Moreover, as depicted in Appendix B, the simplified RVE closely resembles the orientation distribution of the original EBSD data. It
should be noted that the same RVE is used for both AB and HT specimens, since no significant changes in grain orientation and
morphology occur during the heat treatment, as demonstrated in Section 3.2.1. As illustrated in Fig. 4 e, for the finite element model
with 300 × 300 hexahedral elements, uniform displacement is applied on the BC2 under horizontal tension, and BC1 under vertical
tension, respectively, while the BC4 and BC3 opposite to the loaded ones are fixed in normal direction as constraints in each case.
By combining Fig. 4 b and d, the grain size mapped with crystal orientations indicates that the large columnar grain shows [001]
preferred orientation along the BD. In contrast, the crescent grains show randomly distributed crystal orientations. To identify the soft
and hard zones within the RVE, horizontal or vertical tension is applied to each element, and the stress-strain response of each element
is obtained based on local single-crystal CPFE simulation, without running the finite-element computation for the whole RVE. Taking 1
% plastic strain as the criterion of yielding for each element, the local yield strength is mapped in Fig. 4 f and g, indicating that the
columnar grains are 'softer' than crescent grains under both horizontal and vertical tensions. Similarly, this trend resembles the
uniaxial tensile results of FCC single-crystals, where [100] and [111] orientations exhibit the lowest and highest yield strength
respectively, with [110] falling between the two (Gupta and Bronkhorst, 2021; Reed, 2008). Therefore, under both horizontal and
vertical tensions, the large columnar grains and crescent grains can be regarded as the 'soft' and 'harder' zones, respectively.

## 3.2.3. Strain, stress and GND distributions

yc value.
The simulated strain distributions within RVE are exhibited in Fig. 5. At both RT and ETs, the strains normal to the tensile directions
are significantly localized at the large columnar grain under horizontal tension, whereas the strains are more uniformly distributed
under vertical tension (Fig. 5 a-b). Those strain distributions under horizontal and vertical tension align well with the measurement
results in both distribution patterns and magnitudes, as validated in Appendix C. Meanwhile, the strain partitioning between columnar
and crescent grain zones is quantified in Fig. 5 a3 and b3. Under the horizontal tension, point A within the columnar grain region
shows a local strain higher than the global average strain, whereas point B within the crescent grain region displays a local strain lower
than the global strain. Notably, the strain partitioning degree increases with global strain under the horizontal tension. In contrast, the
Vertical tension
Horizontal tension
a2
a3
a1
(global strain 10%)
AB-RT-H
AB-RT-V
Reference line (global strain)
Point A
Local strain [%]
Point B
RE
B
εxx
Eyy
∞
Global strain [%]
b1
b2
b3
AB-ET-H
AB-ET-V
Reference line
ET (900°C)
Point A
Local strain [%]
Point B
y
Exx
x
Eyy
0.3

## 50. μm

Global strain [%]
Strain
c1
c2
Crescent
Columnar
Crescent
Applied displacement
Caunon rauonn
Horizontal tension
grain
Vertical tension
Applied displacement
hard
soft
hard
soft
hard
Deformed
config.
Deformed
config.
Strain localization
mechanical model for columnar-to-crescent grains under horizontal and vertical tension.

in strain partitioning during the whole loading process.
recognized as 'soft' and 'hard' zones, respectively. Under horizontal tension, due to the absence of soft-to-hard transition within each
cross-section normal to tensile direction, the columnar and crescent grains are subjected to similar oxx, which is the dominant stress
component under horizontal tension. Hence, the soft and hard zones can deform independently without significant mutual constraints,
resulting in the strain εxx localization within the soft columnar grain (Fig. 5 c1). This insight can be reinforced by previous studies on
strain partitioning of soft-to-hard layered materials under the same loading condition (Zhai et al., 2024). In contrast, under the vertical
tension, the oyy is re-distributed within each cross-section normal to tensile direction, to maintain the deformation coordination be-
tween soft and hard zones. Due to the mutual constrain between both, there is no significant strain εyy partitioning, which is consistent
with the previous works regarding the soft-to-hard layered materials under vertical tension (Luo et al., 2022; Zhou et al., 2024).
Moreover, under the horizontal tension, the strain localization at columnar grain is more pronounced at ET, compared with that at
RT (Fig. 5 a1, b1). The quantification analysis in Fig. 5 a3 and b3 also indicates that the strain partitioning degree between the crescent
and columnar grains is significantly enhanced at ET, compared with that at RT. According to Eq. (11), a higher dislocation annihilation
rate at ETs could reduce the SSD density and weaken the dislocation strengthening, especially for the columnar grain region with strain
localization. Consequently, compared with soft grains, the applied deformation more significantly softens the columnar grain at ET
under horizontal tension throughout the whole deformation process.
The normal stresses along tensile directions distributed across columnar-to-crescent grains are exhibited in Fig. 6. As depicted in
Fig. 6 a1 and b1, under the horizontal tension, the stresses exhibit relatively uniform distributions across columnar-to-crescent grains
at both RT and ETs. At each cross-section normal to the horizontal tension direction, the absence of a soft-to-hard transition results in a
nearly uniform distribution of normal stresses along the tensile direction, without the stress re-distribution typically required to ensure
deformation coordination along the tensile direction. This simulation result also aligns well with the previous study on layered soft-to-
hard materials under horizontal tension (Zhai et al., 2024). In contrast, the vertical tension features stress localization at the crescent
grain zone (Fig. 6 a1 and b1), resulting from the stress redistribution induced by deformation coordination (Fig. 5 c2). Under the
Horizontal tension
Vertical tension
σxx
a2
a1
σyy
Stress / MPa
R
b1
σxx
b2
σyy
Stress / MPa
ET (900°C)
y

## 50. μm

X
Fig. 6. Stress distributions within columnar-to-crescent grains (5% global strain): (a) Patterns of normal stress along the tensile directions under
horizontal and vertical tensions at RT. (b) Stress patterns under horizontal and vertical tensions at ET. Both a and b suggest that the stresses are
concentrated within the region of the crescent grains under vertical tension, and uniformly distributed under horizontal tension.

localization at crescent grains.
superalloys (Gao and Huang, 2003; Gao et al., 2023; Li et al., 2020). Thus, it is essential to understand the GND effects arising from the
columnar-to-crescent grains. As demonstrated in Fig. 5 a-b, the horizontal tension with larger strain gradients across soft to hard zones,
is selected to display the GND patterns and compare with the experiments. In simulations, the scalar GND density is defined as the 2nd
norm of GND densities at individual slip systems (Pantleon, 2008; Xu, 2021):
c
AB-H-ET
a
AB-H-ET
Scalar GND density / µm-2
Grain aspect ratio / μm-2
Scalar GND density / µm-2
p
Columnar grain zone
b
AB-H-RT

## 50. μm

EBSD-based GND
CPFE-based GND

## 50. μm

e
f
AB-H-ET (Sim.)
AB-H-RT (Sim.)
AB-H-ET (Exp.)
AB-H-RT (Exp.)
N
Scalar GND density / µm
Scalar GND density / µm
wMoh
Distance along horizontal direction / µm
Fig. 7. Comparison of scalar GND density patterns between EBSD and CPFE under horizontal tension: (a, b) Simulated scalar GND density dis-
tributions at 10% global strain same with c and d. (c, d) Experimental scalar GND density distributions, which are obtained from EBSD results. (e, f)
Quantitative comparisons of GND density between simulations and experiments, in which each point on the curve is averaged over the vertical
direction to represent the mean trend.

Nslip
∑ (ρGNDe)2 + ρGND)))
N =
s=1
(15)
Nslip
=
s=1
where scalar SSD density is defined with the same expression. As shown in Fig. 7 a-b, the GND patterns at RT and ET exhibit distinctive
characteristics under horizontal tension. Driven by strain gradients across soft to hard zones, the GND is localized around the columnar
grain at ET. In contrast, at the RT condition, the GND is localized at the grain boundaries within the crescent grain regions, which is
induced by the strain gradient at grain boundaries where grain orientation changes (Zhong et al., 2024). Compared with ET, the lower
EL and weaker strain localization within columnar grain at RT, contribute to the change of scalar GND patterns.
Furthermore, the scalar GND patterns obtained from EBSD are used to validate the simulation results. As depicted in Fig. 7 c-d, GND
density estimated from EBSD shows comparable magnitude with those in CPFE simulations. Similarly, the GND densities exhibit
relatively higher magnitudes at ET, compared with those at RT. With the positions of columnar-to-crescent grains indicated by grain
aspect ratio maps, the GND densities are localized at the columnar grain regions at ET, and exhibit a more diffused distribution within
crescent grain regions at RT, which are consistent with the simulated GND patterns shown in Fig. 7 a-b. The quantitative comparison
shown in Fig. 7 e-f demonstrates good agreement between simulation and experiment. Both CPFE-based and EBSD-based GND den-
sities exhibit a peak in the columnar grain region at ET, while showing a more uniform distribution at RT. Moreover, the GND densities
obtained from both methods are of comparable magnitude, demonstrating the high accuracy of simulated strain gradients and GNDs.
The differences in GND density between the experiment and simulation can be attributed to two main factors. First, the CPFE model
resolves all components of the Nye tensor, whereas the EBSD-based algorithm captures only 5 components. This discrepancy in the
GND calculation methods contributes to the relative error. Second, although both the CPFE and EBSD domains exhibit similar features,
such as the transition of columnar-to-crescent grains, different orientation distributions are used in the simulation and experiment.
This primarily arises from the lack of EBSD data for the same area in the undeformed state.

## 4. Discussion

## 4.1. Mechanism for anomalous anisotropy from RT to ET

The analysis on the number of activated slip systems is utilized to interpret the anisotropy at RT. As shown in Fig. 8 a-b, both
horizontal and vertical tension show more activated slip systems within the columnar grain, attributed to the lower local yield strength
(Fig. 4 f-g). Under the same global strain, a smaller number of activated slip systems suggest less complete plastic deformation, which
in turn contributes to higher strength. Based on the statistical results shown in Fig. 8 c, vertical tension exhibits a higher average
number of activated slip systems within the RVE, along with a more dispersed distribution as indicated by a higher standard deviation.
Hence, the more complete slip activation under vertical tension results in lower strength at RT.
The transition of anisotropic behaviour at ETs is understood from the perspective of dislocation strengthening. Compared with the
cases of RT with strain hardening, enhanced dislocation annihilation is essential to capture the strain softening at ETs for both AB and
HT specimens (Fig. A.1), which could be the primary contributor of anomalous anisotropy at ETs. The temperature dependence of
dislocation annihilation will be elaborated in Section 4.4. On the other hand, as depicted in the subsequent GND analysis in Section 4.3
(Fig. 14 a-b), the gradient of grain size-induced GNDs account for less than 10 % of the total dislocation density at the early stage of
deformation under both RT and 900 C. Moreover, from the stress-strain responses in the cases with and without GNDs (Fig. 14 d-e),
the GND densities have a neglectable effect on the strength and strain hardening rate at 2 % global strain. Each evidence demonstrates
that SSDs dominate the dislocation strengthening at the early stage of deformation.
Hence, the incremental scalar SSD induced by applied deformation, is chosen to elaborate the mechanism of temperature-
dependent anisotropic behaviour. In Section 4.4, the Arrhenius-type formula is utilized to capture the temperature dependence of
critical annihilation distance yc. Despite LPBF-induced initial SSDs, the incremental SSD densities are solely caused by the applied
deformation during the tension of specimens, which are derived from Eq. (11). As the initial sSDs are assumed to be uniformly
distributed in CPFE modeling, the incremental SSDs can represent the distribution of total SSDs. The scalar SSD is defined in Eq. (15),
which is calculated using the SSDs resolved at individual slip systems.
Moreover, it is necessary to elaborate on the initial SSD and GND densities induced by the LPBF process. The thermal gradient
during the LPBF process produces large thermal stresses, which locally causes plastic deformation and the formation of corresponding
SSDs (Eq. (11)). Meanwhile, due to the non-uniform distribution of thermal stresses, the GNDs are incorporated to accommodate the
gradient of plastic deformation (Eq. (12)). Hence, both SSDs and GNDs co-exist in the AB states. Furthermore, the initial GND densities
are directly extracted from EBSD data, while the uniformly distributed initial SSDs are calibrated by comparing the yield strength of AB
and HT specimens.
As shown in Fig. 9 a, at the RT with smaller dislocation annihilation, the incremental scalar SSD is concentrated at columnar grain

0.20
b
C
a
AB-RT-V: μ=5.01, σ=2.03
AB-RT-H: μ=4.51, σ=1.77
0.15
Relative Frequency
AB-RT-V
AB-RT-H
0.10
0.05
0.00
Number of activated slip systems

## 50. μm

Number of activated slip systems
Fig. 8. Distributions of the number of activated slip systems at the global strain of 1%: (ab) under tension applied along the horizontal and vertical directions in the AB-RT states, respectively. The slip
system is considered to be activated if the accumulated slip γs = ∫ j dt exceeds 2%, where the slip rate j is provided by Eq. (9). (c) The histogram for the number of activated slip systems shown in a-b,
which is extracted from all the elements within RVE. The µ and σ represent the average and standard deviation, respectively.

a1
Vertical tension
a2
Horizontal tension
Crescent
Columnar
Crescent
grain
C
R
AB-RT-V
AB-RT-H
AB-ET-V
AB-ET-H
Incremental SsD density / μm-2
b1
b2
-300
Distance along horizontal direction / µm
-500

## 50. μm

Incremental SSD density / μm-2
Fig. 9. Distributions of incremental scalar SSD density induced by applied deformation (global strain 2%): (a, b) Patterns of incremental SSD
densities at RT and ET for both horizontal and vertical tensions, suggesting that the incremental SSD under horizontal tension is concentrated at the
columnar grain at RT, but exhibits low incremental SSD within columnar grain at ET. (c) The incremental SSD density distribution along the
horizontal direction across columnar and crescent grains. For each point on the curves, the data are averaged over the vertical direction within RVE
to represent the mean trend along the horizontal axis. By comparing the AB-RT-H and AB-ET-H, the peak of incremental SSD density within the
columnar grain changes into a trough value, after enhancing the dislocation annihilation rate at ET.
increments of SSD, and display a trough of SSD density within the columnar grain. Based on the governing equation of SSD density (Eq.
(11)), when the annihilation term dominates at ETs in the presence of AM-induced initial SSD, the SSD density could decrease with
global strain under the applied deformation. The reduction in SSD density at 900°C will be validated against the subsequent TEM
observation. As quantitatively shown in Fig. 9 c, the horizontal tension exhibits a peak of incremental SSD within the columnar grain at
RT, contributing to higher average SSD density, larger average slip resistance ts, and higher strength under horizontal tension at RT,
compared with vertical tension. Furthermore, regarding the horizontal tension at ET, the peak of incremental sSD changes into a
trough value, as the strain localization within the columnar grain (Fig. 5 b1) enhances the dislocation annihilation, according to Eq.
(11). However, for the vertical tension, the enhancement in dislocation annihilation at ET has a minor effect on the trend of incre-
mental SSD distributions. Therefore, the dislocation annihilation leads to a more significant reduction in dislocation strengthening
within the columnar grain under horizontal tension, resulting in a lower YS under horizontal tension compared with the case under
vertical tension at ET.
The TEM characterization is utilized to validate the simulated dislocation patterns exhibited in Fig. 9. As shown in Fig. 10,
compared with the initial dislocation density at AB state (Fig. 3 a3), the applied deformation increases the dislocation density at RT,
but reduces the dislocation density at ET within both columnar and crescent grain regions, which is consistent with the trends in
simulations. Moreover, under the horizontal tension at RT, the dislocation density in large columnar grain is higher than that in
crescent grains (Fig. 10 a and c), whereas the large columnar grain shows lower dislocation density compared with the crescent grains
at ET (Fig. 10 b and d). Those TEM observations align with the simulated dislocation density patterns.
As demonstrated in Section 3.1, with the temperature increasing, the EL under horizontal tension tends to be lower than that under
vertical tension. The SED as a widely recognized damage indicator for predicting the microcrack nucleation, is employed to understand
this trend. As shown in Fig. 11, under both RT and ET, the horizontal tension shows more pronounced SED localization at the columnar
grain. Furthermore, by comparing Fig. 11 a1 with b1, the SED localization within the columnar grain is more significant at ET. As
shown in Eq. (13), the SED is derived from plastic dissipative energy that is calculated using stress and plastic strain tensors. Under
horizontal tension, the average stress within columnar grains is comparable with that in crescent grains to maintain the force balance.
Hence, without the deformation coordination, the dislocation annihilation-assisted strain softening within columnar grain leads to
more significant SED or damage localization under the horizontal tension at ET. As a result, compared with vertical tension, the
horizontal one exhibits lower EL at higher temperatures with enhanced dislocation annihilation.
The EBSD analysis is used to validate the damage distributions shown in Fig. 11. As shown in Fig. 12 a, the fracture passes through

Tensile direction
a
RT
b
ET (900°C)
S
um
Columnar grain
C
RT
d
ET (900°C)
S

## 2. µm

-1 um
Crescent grain
Building direction
Fig. 10. Bright-field TEM images for AB-H specimens at RT and ET, under the comparable deformation level with Figure 9: (a, c) High dislocation
density within columnar grains and crescent grains after the deformation at RT, respectively. (b, d) Low dislocation density within columnar and
crescent grains after the deformation at ET.
the large columnar grains under the horizontal tension at ET. Besides, several long cracks can be found within the columnar grains near
the fracture surface, indicating that the damage is primarily localized within columnar grains. Moreover, under the vertical tension
with much larger EL, dense small cracks can be found within the regions of crescent grains (Fig. 12 b), with some long cracks initiating
at columnar grains, suggesting a more diffused damage distribution. Those experimental observations are consistent with the simu-
lation shown in Fig. 11 b. Therefore, both SED distributions in CPFE simulation and the EBSD analysis of fractured specimens
consistently indicate that the maximum damage and EL under horizontal tension are primarily governed by strain localization within
columnar grains. In contrast, under vertical tension, maximum damage and cracking initiated at crescent grains dominate the EL and
failure behaviour.

## 4.2. Mechanism for relaxation of strength anisotropy after heat treatment

The CPFE simulations are further employed to understand the mechanisms for the relaxation of strength anisotropy after heat
treatment. As demonstrated in Fig. 3, the HT process can eliminate LPBF-induced initial GNDs, initial SSDs, and residual deformation
(Fpo), without altering the grain orientations and morphology. Based on the algorithm described in Section 2.4, the initial GND and
residual deformation obtained from EBSD are shown in Fig. 13 d-e. The initial GNDs localized at grain boundaries introduce aniso-
tropic initial dislocation strengthening, which more significantly enhances the YS for horizontal tension at RT, compared with vertical
tension (Toursangsaraki et al., 2024). Meanwhile, the LPBF-induced residual strains sharing a similar inhomogeneous pattern with
initial GNDs, also contribute to enhancing the anisotropy. Moreover, the initial SSD with uniform distribution in CPFE simulations
amplifies the intrinsic texture-induced anisotropy for columnar-to-crescent grains (Herath et al., 2024). In Fig. 13 a, regarding the
anisotropy at RT, the initial GND, SSD, and residual deformation are individually incorporated into the CPFE simulations, with the HT
state as the baseline. As marked in Fig. 13 a, the anisotropy indicator Δ is defined as the strength difference between horizontal tension
and vertical tension. As quantified in Fig. 13 b, the contributions to the anisotropy enhancement from HT to AB followed the order of
residual deformation > initial SSD > initial GND at the RT condition.
At the ET condition, the contributions of LPBF-induced factors on anisotropy enhancement are shown in Fig. 13 c. The residual
deformation and initial GND tend to increase the anisotropy, resembling the behaviour observed at RT. In contrast to the trend at RT,
the anisotropy at ET is significantly reduced because of the initial SSD. As demonstrated in Fig. 9, the enhanced dislocation annihi-

Horizontal tension
Vertical tension
a1
a2
Stored energy density [J/m2]
R
b1
b2
Stored energy density [J/m²]
0.5
ET (900°C)
y

## 50. μm

X
Fig. 11. Distributions of SED as a damage indicator (10% global strain) in AB state: (a) Horizontal and vertical tension at RT. (b) Horizontal and
vertical tension at ET.
Columnar grains
Grain aspect ratio
a
| ←→ F b
F
Columnar grains
Long crack
Small
crack
AB-H-ET
AB-V-ET

## 100. μm

Fig. 12. Grain aspect ratio maps for the microstructures near the fracture in AB specimens at ET (900°C): (a) Under horizontal tension, indicating
that the fracture occurs within columnar grains. (b) Vertical tension, suggesting dense small cracks within the crescent grain regions. The grain
aspect ratio maps are used to indicate the positions of columnar grains.
condition to cause a higher YS under vertical tension at ET, therefore significantly contributing to the reduction of anisotropy at ET.

## 4.3. Effect of GND evolution

Since the LPBF-induced columnar-to-crescent grains can be regarded as a kind of lamellar gradient microstructures (Li et al., 2020;

a
Anisotropy (H>V) enhancement
Stress (MPa)
Δ /MPa

## 35. MPa

TΔ
V (HT
+
initial GND)
H (HT + initial GND)
/ (HT + initial Fpo)
V
H (HT
+ initial
|Fpo)
V (HT + initial SSD)
H
(HT + initial
SSD)
HT+Fpo
HT
HT+GND HT+SSD
AB
Strain (%)
d
C
e
-10
-20
Δ /MPa
-30
I
-23 MPa
Anisotropy (V>H)
-40
enhancement
-50
0.03
HT
HT+GND HT+SSD HT+Fp0
AB
Initial scalar GND density / μm-2
Residualeq-
Zhu and Wu, 2023), it is essential to understand the extra strengthening effect contributed by strain gradients and GNDs. To analyze
the impact of GND evolution during the deformation, the ratio of GND density to the total dislocation density is defined as:
GND
rGNd
(16)
GND + sSD
where the scalar GND and SSD are defined using the L2 norm (Eq. (15)).
The GND strengthening effects at different temperatures and loading directions are shown in Fig. 14. As depicted in Fig. 14 b, under
the RT with minor dislocation annihilation, the accumulated SSDs constitute most of the total dislocations. Compared with GNDs, the
higher accumulation rate of SSDs results in rGND decreasing with the global strain. In contrast, as shown in Fig. 14 a, after incorporating
SSD annihilation at ET, GNDs exhibit an accumulation rate higher than SSD, leading to rGND increasing with the global strain. As a
result, the extra strengthening induced by GND has a larger impact on stress-strain responses at ET (Fig. 14 d-e). Moreover, by
comparing Fig. 14 a3 with c, the strain gradients induced by columnar-to-crescent grains induce higher rgnD around the columnar
grain. The reason is that such grain distribution leads to more significant strain localization within columnar grains under horizontal
tension, as demonstrated in Fig. 5 a-b. Hence, as shown in Fig. 14 e, the GND provides more extra strengthening under horizontal
tension at ET.

## 4.4. Threshold temperature for the anisotropy transition

The CPFE model is further used to determine the threshold temperature for the occurrence of anisotropy transition. As previously
demonstrated, the dislocation annihilation mechanism dominates the anomalous anisotropy. Since the dislocation annihilation is a
thermally activated process (Huang et al., 2009), the parameter yc governing the dislocation annihilation rate in Eq. (11), could
monotonically increase with temperature. As schematized in Fig. 15 a, the normal (horizontal strength > vertical strength) and
anomalous (vertical strength > horizontal strength) anisotropy occurs along with the strain hardening (high yc) and strain softening

a1
ε =1%
a2
ξ =5%
a3
ε = 10%
AB-ET-V
0.08
rGND
b1
ε =1%
b2
δ = 5%
c
ε =10%
AB-RT-V
AB-ET-H

## 50. μm

d
e 400
RT
ET (900°C)

## 25.8. MPa

## 8. MPa

Stress / MPa

## 12. MPa

Stress / MPa

## 53.2. MPa

AB-V with GND evolution
AB-V without GND evolution
AB-H with GND evolution
AB-H with
GND evolution
AB-H without GND evolution
Strain / %
Fig. 14. Deformation-induced GND evolution, and its effects on stress-strain responses: (a) The rGND evolution in the case of AB-ET-V, suggesting
that the magnitude of rGND increases with global strain ε at ET. (b) The rGND evolution in the case of AB-RT-V, indicating that rGND is lower in the
whole deformation process, and tends to decrease with global strain. (c) The rGND pattern in the case of AB-ET-H. Compared with a3, the horizontal
tension produces higher GND density and larger rGND. (d, e) Comparisons of simulated stress-strain responses with/without GND evolution, indi-
cating that the deformation-induced GND offers more extra strengthening at ET, particularly under horizontal tension.
initial sSD with uniform distribution at AB state, the threshold value of yc should satisfy the condition that ρssD identically equals 0:
¯D = |
|ys|
=0
b
(17)
Due to the (|/b) > 0 during the deformation, the following term should equal 0 when yc reaches the threshold value:
(√|s | + |
|G + | − d)=
(18)
Then, the threshold value of yc can be expressed as follows:
c,trSsita
(19)

c,threshold and threshold temperature
a
b
H tension>V tension
0.016
Strength difference between
horizontal and vertical tension
Threshold
Temperature increasing
Strain
hardening
$yc/ m$
0.012
Strain
softening
0.008
Threshold
temperature
RT
H tension
 yc,threshold correspond to SsD density increasing and decreasing with resolved shear strain, respectively.
Additionally, as demonstrated inFig. 13 b and Table S1, the initial GND with a magnitude lower than SSD can be neglected. Hence, the
slip system-dependent GND in Eq. (19) can be eliminated:
( 2ρ SD,intial)
c,threshold ≈ KρsSD,initial/
(20)
Furthermore, the classic Arrhenius equation is employed to capture the temperature-dependent yc:
Q
yc = D0exp
(21)
RT
logarithmic linear regression (Guo et al., 2021), using the values of yc at RT and ET (900 C), respectively.
validation for the prediction of threshold temperature.

## 5. Conclusions

simulations. The main conclusions of this study can be summarised as follows.
1.Compared with vertical tension, horizontal tension shows YS higher at RT, but exhibits lower YS at ET (900 °C). The transition of
anisotropy from RT to ET is governed by the temperature-dependent dislocation annihilation within the columnar grains, with the
threshold temperature predicted to be 600C.
2.Compared with HT state, the enhancement of anisotropy in AB state is attributed to several LPBF-induced factors, ranked in order of
impact: residual deformation > initial SSD > initial GND at RT, and initial SSD > initial GND > residual deformation at ET.

## 3. Damage is localized within large columnar grains under horizontal tension, resulting in lower EL compared to vertical tension in

both the AB and HT states. This effect becomes more pronounced at ETs due to enhanced damage localization facilitated by
dislocation annihilation.

## 4. The strain gradient provides a more significant strengthening effect at ETs owing to a high GND ratio, particularly in horizontal

tension, where the higher GND density arises from columnar-to-crescent grain structures.
This paper presents an integrated work for understanding and predicting the anisotropic behaviour of AM superalloys. In the future
study, the grain morphology could be tailored using AM technique, to achieve the tunable temperature-dependent anisotropy adapted
to various applications.

## CRediT Authorship

Zhenhua Zhang: Writing original draft, Methodology, Investigation, Conceptualization. Zixu Guo: Writing original draft,
Investigation, Conceptualization. Quanquan Han: Writing review & editing, Validation, Investigation, Funding acquisition. Daijun
Hu: Writing original draft, Methodology. Shiwei Wu: Writing review & editing. Haiyang Fan: Resources. Erlei Li: Methodology.
Ming Li: Validation. Yilun Xu: Investigation. Shoufeng Yang: Methodology. Chuanzhen Huang: Conceptualization. Wentao Yan:
Writing - review & editing, Investigation, Funding acquisition.

## Declaration of Interest

The authors have no conflict of interest.

## Acknowledgements

Prof. Quanquan Han acknowledges the financial support from the Natural Science Foundation of Shandong Province (Grant No.
ZR2023YQ053, ZR2022zD08) and the Key R&D Program of Shandong Province (Grant No. 2024KJHZ027). Prof. Wentao Yan ac-
author(s) and do not reflect the views of the A*STAR. The authors acknowledge Prof. Xiaojun Yan and Prof. Dawei Huang from Beihang
University for their assistance on data processing, under the National Major Science and Technology Project (J2019-IV-0007-0075).
Appendix A. Parameters calibration
The stress-strain curves under horizontal tension exhibited in Fig. 2, are utilized to calibrate the CPFE parameters at RT and ET,
respectively. Specifically, the curves of HT specimens are employed to calibrate most of the parameters, except for LPBF-induced initial
SSD. Then, after the incorporation of LPBF-induced initial GND and residual deformation obtained from EBSD results, the curves of AB
specimens are utilized to calibrate the intensity of initial ssD that is uniformly distributed within the simulation domain. With all the
calibrated parameters listed in Table A.1, the stress-strain curves under vertical tension are employed to validate the CPFE model. As
shown in Fig. A.1, CPFE simulations can reproduce the two key features of anomalous anisotropy summarized in Section 3.1 (items 1
and 2).

a
b 400
Stress (MPa)
Stress (MPa)
AB-RT-H
AB-900°C-H
AB-RT-V
AB-900°C-V
Sim.
HT-RT-H
Sim.
HT-900°C-H
Exp.
.....
HT-RT-V
Exp.
HT-900°C-V
Strain (%)
indicate that the CPFE results are in good agreement with the experimental results.
Table A.1
Calibrated parameters in the CPFE model.
Symbol
Value
Unit
Calibration method
Elastic properties
C11

## 280. (RT) / 105

GPa
Elastic regime of stress-strain curves
C12
(900°C)
C44

## 103. (RT) / 75

(900°C)

## 57.5. (RT) / 42

(900°C)
Flow rule
u
Our previous work (Hu et al., 2024a)
-
0.001
TS

## 250. (RT)

MPa
Fitting the YS of horizontal tension HT specimens without initial

## 50. (900°C)

dislocations
Temperature-dependent dislocation
0.0238
μm
Fitted based on the value of yc at RT and 900°C
annihilation
Q
J/
mol
Damage
E
0.05
From reference (Wan et al., 2014) for FCC alloys
Gcr

## 10. (RT)

J m-2
Matching the EL of horizontal tension specimens

## 0.4. (900°C)

Dislocation hardening

## 0.45. (RT)

Matching the YS of horizontal tension HT specimens

## 0.2. (900°C)

yc

## 0.005. (RT)

μm
Fitting the strain hardening / softening rate of horizontal tension

## 0.016. (900°C)

specimens
K
0.18
Our previous work (Guo et al., 2025) for FCC alloys
-
$\racx}$

## 1. (α = ), 1.4 (α = β)

Our previous work (Hu et al., 2024a) for FCC alloys
-
Initial

## 225. (AB)

μm2
Matching the YS of AB specimens with initial dislocations, under
PSSD

## 10. (HT)

horizontal tension

Fig. B.1
(111)
X
Original EBSD
Y
Z
5.50
(001)
5.06
(101)
(001)
(101)
(001)
(101)
4.63
4.19
Intensity
3.75
3.32
2.88
(111)
2.45
Simplified RVE
X
Z
2.01
Y
1.57
1.14
0.70
(001)
(101)
(001)
(101)
(001)
(101)
Fig. B.1. Comparison between original EBSD and simplified RVE in terms of orientation distributions: The IPF maps show similar patterns
and magnitude before and after simplification, suggesting that the simplification of RVE in Figure 4 a-b is rational.
Appendix C. Experimental strain distribution for model validation
Fig. C.1
Columnar
Crescent
b
Crescent
0.25
a
AB-ET-H
Simulation
Experiment
0.20
0.15
AB-ET-H
s
0.10
0.05
0.4
0.00
Exx
Distance along horizontal direction / µm
c
d
0.25
AB-ET-V
Simulation
Experiment
0.20
AB-ET-V
0.15
0.10
0.05
y
0.00
X
Distance along horizontal direction / µm

## 50. μm

cal tensions.
Appendix D. Fractured surface morphology
The SEM fractography (Fig. D.1) exhibits multi-source crack initiation and dimpled rupture, free from defect-induced microcracks
initiation. This implies that mechanical responses are dominated by LPBF-induced crystallographic texture and initial dislocation
density, rather than volumetric defects inherent to LPBF.
b
a
Dimples
b

## 0. μm

C
Dimples
d
D

## 100. μm

um
High-magnification view of a. (c) Overview of the HT-RT-V fracture surface. (d) High-magnification view of c.
Appendix E. Additional TEM observations of the AB and HT specimens
reduction in dislocation densities across the specimens upon heat treatment.

t0ndt Jourdl of Ptasticity 192 (2025) 104409
AB-Region 1
AB-Region 2
AB-Region 3
Dislocations
Y
HT-Region 1
HT-Region2
HT-Region 3
Dislocations
nm
Fig. E.1. TEM images acquired from multiple regions of the AB and HT specimens.

## Data Availability

Data will be made available on request.
References
Acharya, A., Bassani, J.L., 2000. Lattice incompatibility and a gradient theory of crystal plasticity. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 48, 15651595.
Adapa, V.S.K., Kalidindi, S.R., Saldana, C.J., 2025. Insights into the gamma prime precipitation behavior during heat treatment of additively manufactured nickel-
based superalloy. J. Alloys Compd. 1012, 178507.
Addessio, F., Luscher, D., Cawkwel, M., Ramos, K., 2017. A single-crystal model for the high-strain rate deformation of cyclotrimethylene trinitramine including
phase transformations and plastic slip. J. Appl. Phys. 121.
Arsenlis, A., Parks, D.M., 1999. Crystallographic aspects of geometrically-necessary and statistically-stored dislocation density. Acta Mater. 47, 15971611.
ASTM, 2009. Standard test methods for elevated temperature tension tests of metallic materials, ASTM E21-09.
ASTM, 2016. Standard specification for UNS N06002, UNS N06230, UNS N12160, and UNS R30556 Rod. B02.07.
ASTM, 2021. Standard test methods for tension testing of metallic materials, ASTM E8 /E8M-21, West Conshohocken.
Bayley, C.J., Brekelmans, W.A.M., Geers, M.G.D., 2006. A comparison of dislocation induced back stress formulations in strain gradient crystal plasticity. Int. J. Solids
Struct. 43, 72687286.
Bean, G., McLouth, T., Witkin, D., Sitzman, S., Adams, P., Zaldivar, R., 2019. Build orientation effects on texture and mechanical properties of selective laser melting
Inconel 718. J. Mater. Eng. Perform. 28, 19421949.
Beausir, B., Fundenberger, J., 2017. Analysis Tools for Electron and X-ray diffraction. ATEX-software. Université de Lorraine-Metz, p. 201. www.atex-software.eu.
Blakey-Milner, B., Gradl, P., Snedden, G., Brooks, M., Pitot, J., Lopez, E., Leary, M., Berto, F., Du Plessis, A., 2021. Metal additive manufacturing in aerospace: a
review. Mater. Des. 209, 110008.
Chaboche, J.L., 1988. Continuum damage mechanics: part I—general concepts. J. Appl. Mech. 55, 5964.
Chen, Z., Chen, S., Wei, Z., Zhang, L., Wei, P., Lu, B., Zhang, S., Xiang, Y., 2018. Anisotropy of nickel-based superalloy K418 fabricated by selective laser melting.
Progr. Nat. Sci. 28, 496504.
Cui, L., Deng, D., Jiang, S., Peng, R.L., Xin, T., Zhang, H., Hegedüs, Z., Lienert, U., He, W., Moverare, J., 2023. New insights into the anisotropic ductility of additively
manufactured Inconel 718. Int. J. Plasticity 169, 103738.
Dai, S., Hu, D., Grili, N., Zou, S., Deng, Z., Yan, W., 2024. Anisotropic and high-temperature deformation behavior of additively manufactured AlSi1oMg: experiments
and microscale modeling. Addit. Manuf. 89, 104285.
Dang, X., Li, Y., Zheng, J., Cui, L., Lu, K., Liang, X., Luo, S., Zhou, G., Jiao, Y., Dou, Y., Zhou,
L.,
He,
,W., 2025. Shear banding mediated fracture mechanisms in
additively manufactured IN738 superalloys under low-strain-rate loading. Int. J. Plasticity 188, 104296.
Dill, E.H., 2006. Continuum Mechanics: Elasticity, Plasticity, Viscoelasticity. Taylor & Francis.
Farias, F.W.C., Duarte, V.R., Filho, J.D.C.P., Figueiredo, A.R., Schell, N., Maawad,
E., Li,
J.Y.,
Zhang,
, Y., Bordas-Czaplicki, M., Fonseca, F.M.A.D., Cormier, J.,
Santos, T.G., Oliveira, J.P., 2024. High-performance Ni-based superalloy
fabricated
via
arc
plasma directed energy deposition: effect of post-deposition heat
treatments on microstructure and mechanical properties. Addit.
Manuf.
88,
104252.
Galindo-Nava, E.I.,
, Rivera-Díaz-del-Castillo, P.E.J., 2012. A
thermostatistical
theory
of low
and
high temperature deformation in metals. Mater. Sci. Eng. 543,
110116.
Gao, H., Huang, Y., 2003. Geometrically necessary dislocation and size-dependent plasticity. Scr. Mater. 48, 113118.

manufacturing.
Science
372.
laser-metal
additive
single
crystal
superalloy. Int. J. Plasticity
relation
for
137, 102916.
framework
for
Y.,
2025.
GNDs
and
SEDs:
a
multi-scale
Slip
system-resolved
hole
on
single
crystal
superalloy:
experiment
band evolution behavior
near
circular
and simulation. Int. J. Plasticity 165, 103600.
single
crystal
superalloy: unveiling
the
constitutive
model
for
e secondary ritatin creep ircular ole.IntJ.Plasy
173, 103874.
Gupta, S., Bronkhorst, C.A., 2021. Crystal plasticity model for single crystal Ni-based superalloys:
and
temperature
dependence of flow stress.
capturing
orientation
Int. J. Plasticity 137, 102896.
behavior
of
(α+β)
Ti
alloys:
Herath, C., Wijesinghe, K., Michopoulos, J.G., Arnold, S.M., Achuthan, A., 2024.
and
anisotropic
A
Hierarchical
deformation
microstructure-informed multiscale constitutive model study. Int. J. Plasticity
183,
104163.
multiscale
crystal plasticity r
modeling of
Hu, D., Grilli, N., Yan, W., 2023. Dislocation structures formation induced by
thermal stress in
additive
manufacturing:
dislocation transport. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 173, 105235.
micro-scale
tensile
tests and
Hu, D., Guo, Z., Grilli, N., Tay, A., Lu, Z., Yan, W., 2024a. Understanding the strain localization in additively
manufactured
materials:
crystal plasticity modeling. Int. J. Plasticity 177, 103981.
Hu, X., Guo, C., Huang, Y., Xu, Z., Shi, Z., Zhou, F., Li, G., Zhou, Y., Li, Y., Li, Z., Li, Z., Lu, H., Ding,
H., Dong,
H.,
Zhu,
Q.,
2024b.
Liquid-induced healing of cracks in
nickel-based superalloy fabricated by laser powder bed fusion. Acta Mater. 267.
constitutive model for
deformation
n in FCC metals based on
Huang, M., Rivera-Díaz-del-Castillo, P.E.J., Bouaziz, O., van der Zwaag, S., 2009. A
high
strain
rate
irreversible thermodynamics. Mech. Mater. 41, 982988.
Kok, Y., Tan, X.P., Wang, P., Nai, M., Loh, N.H., Liu, E., Tor, S.B., 2018. Anisotropy and heterogeneity
of
microstructure
and
mechanical properties in metal additive
manufacturing: a critical review. Mater. Des. 139, 565586.
Kurz, W., Fisher, D., Rappaz, M., 2023. Fundamentals of Solidification, 5th
fully
revised
edition.
Trans
Tech
Publications
Ltd,
Baech.
Lemaitre, J., 1985. Coupled elasto-plasticity and damage constitutive equations.
Comput.
Methods
Appl.
Mech.
Eng.
51,
3149.
Li, X., Lu, L., Li, J., Zhang, X., Gao, H., 2020. Mechanical properties and deformation
mechanisms
of
gradient
nanostructured
metals and alloys. Nat. Rev. Mater. 5,
706723.
Liu, P.W., Wang, Z., Xiao, Y.H., Lebensohn, R.A., Liu, Y.C.,
Horstemeyer, M.F.,
Cui,
X.Y.,
Chen,
2020.
Integration
of phase-field
model and crystal plasticity for the
prediction of process-structure-property relation of additively manufactured
metallic
materials.
Int.
J.
Plasticity
128,
102670.
Liu, S., Xiong, Y., Zhao, J., Liu, B., Wu, W., Zhang, X.,
2025.
Nonlocal
crystal
plasticity
and
damage
modeling
of
dual-heterostructured steel for strengthening and
failure analysis. Int. J. Plasticity 187, 104270.
Liu, Z., Han, Q., Zhang, Z., Wang, L., Ma, T., Gao, Z., Song, B.,
Liu,
H.,
Huang, C., Setchi,
R.,
2023.
Design
of a
a novel crack-free precipitation-strengthened nickel-based
superalloy and composites for laser powder bed fusion. Virtual Phys. Prototyp.
18.
Lu, X., Chen, C., Zhang, G., Chiumenti, M., Cervera, M., Yin, H., Ma, L., Lin, X., 2023.
Thermo-mechanical simulation of annealing heat treatment of Ni-based GH4099
73,
103703.
superalloy made by laser powder bed fusion. Addit. Manuf.
Lu, X., Zhao, J., Wang, Z., Gan, B., Zhao, J., Kang, G., Zhang, X., 2020. Crystal plasticity finite
element analysis of gradient nanostructured TWIP steel. Int. J. Plasticity
130, 102703.
digital image correlation method. Eng. Fail. Anal. 142, 106823.
NASA, 2023. https://www.nasa.gov/centers-and-facilities/marshall/nasas-innovative-rocket-nozzle-paves-way-for-deep-space-missions/.
Okugawa, M., Saito, K., Yoshima, H., Sawaizumi, K., Nomoto, S., Watanabe, M., Nakano, T., Koizumi, Y., 2024. Solute segregation in a rapidly solidified Hastelloy-X
Ni-based superalloy during laser powder bed fusion investigated by phase-field and computational thermal-fluid dynamics simulations. Addit. Manuf. 84, 104079.
Pantleon, W., 2008. Resolving the geometrically necessary dislocation content by conventional electron backscattering diffraction. Scr. Mater. 58, 994997.
Pedersen, P., 2005. Axisymmetric analytical stiffness matrices with Green-Lagrange strains. Comput. Mech. 35, 227235.
Peirce, D., Asaro, R.J., Needleman, A., 1983. Material rate dependence and localized deformation in crystalline solids. Acta Metallurgica 31, 19511976.
Penrose, R., 1955. A generalized inverse for matrices. Math. Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc. 51, 406413.
Permann, C.J., Gaston, D.R., Andrs, D., Carlsen, R.W., Kong, F., Lindsay, A.D., Miller, J.M., Peterson, J.W., Slaughter, A.E., Stogner, R.H., Martineau, R.C., 2020.
MOOSE: enabling massively parallel multiphysics simulation. SoftwareX. 11, 100430.
Reed, R.C., 2008. The superalloys: fundamentals and applications. Cambridge university press.
Rezaei, A., Kermanpur, A., Rezaeian, A., Badrossamay, M., Foroozmehr, E., Sadeghi, F., Han, J., Park, T.M., 2021. Contribution of hot isostatic pressing on
densification, microstructure evolution, and mechanical anisotropy of additively manufactured IN718 Ni-based superalloy. Mater. Sci. Eng. 823, 141721.
Rezaei, A., Rezaeian, A., Kermanpur, A., Badrossamay, M., Foroozmehr, E., Marashi, M., Foroozmehr, A., Han, J., 2020. Microstructural and mechanical anisotropy of
selective laser melted IN718 superalloy at room and high temperatures using small punch test. Mater. Charact. 162, 110200.
Rice, J.R., 1971. Inelastic constitutive relations for solids: an internal-variable theory and its application to metal plasticity. J. Mech. Phys. Solids 19, 433455.
Song W. Yang, J., Liang, J., Lu, N. Zhou, Y. Sun, X. Li, J., 2024. A new approach to design advanced superalloys for additive manufacturing. Addit. Manuf 84,
104098.
Subeshan, B., Ali, Z., Asmatulu, E., 2024. Metal additive manufacturing in space and aerospace exploration: current processes, material selection and challenges.
J. Eng. Appl. Sci. 11, 35.
Sun, S.-H., Ishimoto, T., Hagihara, K., Tsutsumi, Y., Hanawa, T., Nakano, T., 2019. Excellent mechanical and corrosion properties of austenitic stainless steel with a
unique crystallographic lamellar microstructure via selective laser melting. Scr. Mater. 159, 8993.
Sun, S., Teng, Q., Xie, Y., Liu, T., Ma, R., Bai, J., Cai, C., Wei, Q., 2021. Two-step heat treatment for laser powder bed fusion of a nickel-based superalloy with
simultaneously enhanced tensile strength and ductility. Addit. Manuf. 46, 102168.
Sun, Z., Sun, B., Soh, V., Lee, C., Lau, D., Wei, F., Silva, A.K.d., Lin, M., Tan, C.C., Wang, P., Ramamurty, U., 2024. Laser powder bed fusion of crack-susceptible
stainless maraging steel undergoing solid-state phase transformations. Acta Mater. 263.
Taller, S., Austin, T., 2022. Using post-processing heat treatments to elucidate precipitate strengthening of additively manufactured superalloy 718. Addit. Manuf. 60,
103280.
Tan, C., Weng, F., Sui, S., Chew, Y., Bi, G., 2021. Progress and perspectives in laser additive manufacturing of key aeroengine materials. Int. J. Mach. Tools Manuf.
170.
superalloys for additive manufacturing. Acta Mater. 202, 417436.
Toursangsaraki, M., Du, D., Wang, H., Dong, A., 2024. Crystal plasticity quantification of anisotropic tensile and fatigue properties in laser powder bed fused Inconel

## 718. superalloy.

Addit. Manuf. 89, 104300.

283290.
Wang, L., Guo, Q., Chen, L., Yan, W., 2023. In-situ experimental and high-fidelity modeling tools
s to advance understanding of metal additive manufacturing. Int. J.
Mach. Tools Manuf. 193, 104077.
Wen, Y., Gao, Y., Narayan, R.L., Cai, W., Wang, P., Wei, X., Zhang, B., Ramamurty,
U.,
Qu,
X.,
2025.
Tensile
behavior
r of additively
y manufactured Inconel 718 and
stainless steel 316L with compositionally graded joints. Int. J. Plasticity
189,
104342.
Wong, S.L., Madivala, M., Prahl, U., Roters, F., Raabe, D., 2016. A
crystal
plasticity
model
for
twinning-
and
transformation-induced
plasticity. Acta Mater. 118,
140151.
Xu, Y., 2021. A non-local methodology for geometrically necessary
dislocations and
application
to
crack
tips.
Int. J.
Plasticity
140,
102970.
Xu, L., Chen, H., Jia, Y., Wang, D., Wu, S., Jia, Y., Wang, G., Guo,
Z., Xu, Y., 2025. Revealing
g effects of
creep
damage
on
high-temperature fatigue behavior for
HfNbTiZr refractory high-entropy alloys: Experimental investigation and crystal-plasticity modelling.
J.
Mater.
Sci.
Technol.
231,
134150.
Xu, Y., Lu, X., Yang,
X.,
W.,
Aitken, Z., Vastola, G., Gao, H., Zhang, Y.-W., 2024. Temperature-dependent,
multi-mechanism
crystal
l plasticity reveals the
Li,
deformation
and
failure behaviour of multi-principal element alloys. J. Mech. Phys. Solids
185,
105549.
Yin, Y., Li, H., Pan, S., Zhang, J., I
wt% NaNO3 solution. Corros. Sci. 206, 110494.
based superalloy. In: Superalloys 2020: Proceedings of the 14th International Symposium on Superalloys. Springer, pp.
1003-1013.
strain partitioning behavior in a dual-phase steel with lamellar structure. Mater. Sci. Eng. 897, 146356.
Zhang, X., Liang, Y., Yi, F., Liu, H., Zhou, Q., Yan, Z., Lin, J., 2023a. Anisotropy
y in microstructure and mechanical properties of additively
manufactured Ni-based
GH4099 alloy. J. Mater. Res. Technol. 26, 65526564.
Zhang, X., Xu, H., Li, Z., Dong, A., Du, D., Lei, L., Zhang, G., Wang, D., Zhu,
,G., Sun, B., 2021. Effect of the scanning strategy
microstructure
and
mechanical
on
anisotropy of Hastelloy X superalloy produced by Laser Powder Bed Fusion. Mater. Charact. 173, 110951.
Zhang, X., Zhao, J., Kang, G., Zaiser, M., 2023b. Geometrically necessary
dislocations and related kinematic hardening in gradient
t grained materials:
a
nonlocal
crystal plasticity study. Int. J. Plasticity 163, 103553.
Zhong, H., Shi, Q., Dan, C., You, X., Zong, S., Zhong, S., Zhang, Y., Wang, H., Chen, Z., 2024. Resolving localized geometrically necessary
dislocation
densities in Al-
Mg polycrystal via in situ EBSD. Acta Mater. 279, 120290.
Zhou, W., Tian, Y., Tan, Q., Qiao, S., Luo, H., Zhu, G., Shu, D., Sun, B., 2022. Effect of carbon content on
the
microstructure,
tensile
properties and cracking
susceptibility of IN738 superalloy processed by laser powder bed fusion. Addit. Manuf. 58, 103016.
SsSo s o s " "I "o Sun "I e "I n "O 'o "I 'Sue 'T "Z 'onZ
the
and
I dislocation storage capacity on t
strengthductility synergy of heterostructured laminates. Mater. Sci. Eng. 896, 146281.
Zhu, C., Harrington, T., Livescu, V., Gray, G.T., Vecchio, K.S., 2016. Determination of geometrically necessary
dislocations
s in large shear strain localization in
aluminum. Acta Mater. 118, 383394.
Zhu, Y., Wu, X., 2023. Heterostructured materials. Prog. Mater. Sci. 131, 101019.